# StringTokenizer vs Split

- What is your opinion about using the StringTokenizer instead of the
   method split() of the String Class?  Look at the Java Doc API for more.
- What methods of the StringTokenizer
   class you do not understand, either because of the parameters or the returned values?
- How does the StringTokenizer help in the
   manipulation of text files?

## My Response

I view StringTokenizer as an extension of the split method, where it splits spaces into an array of variables. It can make extracting a specific set of words or characters much easier.

At first, the documentation provided so much information that it was hard to differentiate between the important information and the not-so-important information but after looking at the code samples, I had a good grasp on StringTokenizer. I was surprised to find out that StringTokenizer has been classified as a legacy class because I can find many use cases for for this method.

## R's Reply

Although it is simpler than the split method do you think that its limitations make it better or worse?

By limitations I mean the class's inability to distinguish between identifiers, numbers, and quotes strings. They also don't recognize and skip comments

## V's Response to R's Reply

I would have to say that it depends on the use case. There are definitely ways to get around that limitation, but I would have to assume that most people who use StringTokenizer want to parse the same type of data (as in generating a graph from a list of doubles.)

## S's Reply

You're right, it can make extracting characters much easier, and it also becomes easy to manipulate text files this way. I thought the documentation was complicated too, but it is much easier after you try the program it activity and see how the code works.