# Exercise 2.6 - Pages 42-45

1. What is a variable in a program and how is it used?

	They are constants in names with values that can refer to data/objects. Variables are used for temporary values that can be changed often.

2. Describe the role of the assignment (=) operator in a program.

	The assignment operator stores a value into a variable.

3. What is a scanner object?

	A scanner object pauses the program and waits for an input from the user.

4. Explain the difference between a variable of type double and a variable of type Scanner.

	A double variable is a floating point number while a Scanner variable refers to a Scanner object.

5. Describe the difference between print and println, and give an appropriate example of the use of each.

	“print” gives you the output, while “println” gives you the output in addition to appending a new line to the end of the output.

	In the weather program, I would use “print” to start a sentence like “The equivalent in Celsius is” and “println” to end a sentence and start a new line.

# Exercise 3.4 - Pages 77-78

1. Describe the difference between an end-of-line comment and a multiline comment.

An end of line comment starts with “//” and ends at a line break.
	A multiline comment starts with “/* ” an ends with “ */”.

2. State two rules of thumb for writing appropriate comments in a program
	Begin a program with a comment explaining the purpose and information that another programmer may find useful in the future. You should also start major segments of code with a comment explaining what the code does when it is run.
