# 4.5 Critical Thinking

> You have an idea for a program that will help the local pizza shop handle takeout orders. Your friend suggests an interview with the shop's owner to discuss her user requirements before you get started on the program. Explain why this is a good suggestion, and list the questions you would ask the owner to help you determine the user requirements.

Consulting with a business before you start a project is not just a suggestion, but rather a general requirement because it provides critical context and information to build a program that adequately caters to the needs of the business. 

Even if this was a side project, it's important to get in touch with the business owner anyways - you'll never know what will happen to your project. For instance, the owner may pay you to implement the program and provide support if anything goes wrong. Apps like OpenTable and Yelp started a fun side projects and now they have risen up to become major companies in the dining industry.

My conversation starter would ask for background information like how the company was started and a some history on how the business grew over time. Although it may be irrelevant to the programming itself, it helps you build a relationship with the business owner and provides useful context when coming up with ideas for the program.

* Give me an overview of your business.

I would start with open-ended questions to get a gist of what the owner would like to sell online.

* What do you want me to build? Is this an entire website that requires a design, a section of a website, mobile app, or maybe as obscure as a command line tool?
* What types of products do you offer? The shop would most likely sell food beyond pizza like breadsticks and pasta. 
* What types of services do you offer? The shop might offer services beyond takeout like rush ordering, bulk orders, and even delivery.
* How will payment be collected? Options include paying beforehand or at pickup. Different methods include cash, and perhaps a system to validate credit cards and gift vouchers online.

From there I would dive into specifics.

* How would each product be customizable? This would help me gather the variables that I would need to create. For instance, pizza can be customized by toppings,  crust,  size, etc.
* I would also ask for functionality as well. There could also be templating system with different pizzas to choose from, and perhaps a “duplicate” button if a user can order multiple pizzas at once. 
* How is each service customizable? A calendar would help a user schedule bulk orders, and perhaps pricing tiers for rush ordering that would bump the pizza to a specific position on a queue.
* What information would you need depending on the type of service chosen? Takeout orders would probably just need only a payment method and a name, while the delivery option would require a customer's address.
