# Term 2 Status Update

As part of your topic review this week, you'll take a moment to participate in a discussion about the status of your Java understanding.

At this point in the course, there are many programming concepts and Java language features that you understand well. There are also some things that you know need review, clarification, and further practice.

Take a moment to think critically about these things, and use the course Lessons area and your textbooks to target problem areas. Then, head over to this week's discussion for a healthy dose of support from the class community.

- Share one programming concept or Java language feature that you feel you fully understand. You are sharing this not in an attempt to brag, but to offer your help to classmates that might need it.
- Share two concepts or features with which you are still struggling. Be specific about where and why you think you are having trouble.

## My Response

**I have a good understanding** with the different types of variables and the use cases for each of them.

**I'm struggling with memorizing** a bunch of methods and deciding between for/while loops. They're both a matter of personal preference, and I will only improve over time.

## M's Reply

Hi Victor,

For memorizing methods I know from experiance it is hard but gets eaiser over time, if you keep using the methods that confuse you in the weeks to come then eventually you will start memorizing them. Also as for loops it really is up to you which you use, personally I am more of a fan of a while loop. This is because it only reqauires one boolean condition to run or not run. This is a huge benifit for me because when I try to do validation tasks (asking user if what they inputed was correct) or want to give the user the opprotunity to run a segment of code or method again. Here you could have it set to run the method or code segment unless the user sends in an input of lets say "stop". An if statement could change the boolean variable based on if stop has been inputed and make it so the while loop becomes false based on that variable. Hope this halped :D.

## S's Reply

I have trouble with methods too, but I could try to give you some clarity about the loops, although it is your personal preference. I tend to use while loops as with for loops, it is easy to lose track of variables. While loops allow you to sort variables more thoroughly. Good luck!

## R's Response to S's Reply

Interesting Sanjana, I actually tend to use for loops more often than while loops. I see what you mean about sorting variables more thoroughly though.

## O's Reply

Same boat with you !

## T's Reply

I agree with you. I would suggest you to use flashcards and maybe you could remember them easier.  