# What would make programming languages easier to learn for humans?

In an ideal world, programming language should resemble natural languages as closely as possible and people should be able flawlessly translate between different languages.

# What are the similarities and differences between learning a natural language and a programming language?

Learning a programming language is significantly easier, since natural languages tend to have exceptions (like past tense and subjects) that usually don't exist in programming languages.

Programming languages don't use full sentences at all. Instead, they are fragments of specific strings put together to preform an action. They can also be master in a significantly shorter amount of time than natural languages.

# In the future, how do you think people will respond when asked: "What language do you speak?"

It would really depend on the context.

In a normal situation, people would just respond with their natural language since words like Python, Java, and HTML won't make sense to an average person. In fact, a recent survey shows that 11% of Americans think that HTML is a sexually transmitted disease: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2014/03/05/html-an-std-tech-survey_n_4904310.html

It would be much different when groups of programmers are hanging out with each other. I've been to a few tech conventions and the first thing I hear when I ask these questions are actual programming languages. A response to this question provides a good overview to what a person does for a living (for example, Objective-C would indicate that a person makes iPhone apps.)
