# 2.4 Instruction Set

> This week, you'll be downloading and installing the Java Development Kit (JDK) and the Eclipse Integrated Development Environment (IDE). Be sure to reach out for help from your Site Coordinator, your school technology staff, and here in the Discussions area if you need support.

## Directions

>	1.  Go to the [Java SE Downloads](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html?ssSourceSiteId=otnjp)&nbsp;web page.
>	2.  Click on the download button on the left for Java Platform(JDK). It will have a version number after it (like "8u20"). Do _not_ use the download on the left for JDK and Netbeans.
>	3.  Accept the License Agreement and choose your Operating System. **Windows users:** If you do not know if your OS is 32x or 64x, right-click on Computer from the Start menu and select Properties. Under System, you will see whether your OS is 64 or 32 bits.
>
>	4.  Download and Install. You do not need to run any applications yet.
>	5.  Go to the [Eclipse Downloads](http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/) web page.
>	6.  Select your operating system from the dropdown menu, and download Eclipse Standard. It will also have a version number after it (like "4.4").
>	7.  Extract the files to a new folder on your hard drive. Name the folder "Eclipse." One of these files will be the executable (.exe) program.
>	8.  Open the Eclipse folder and run the Eclipse program.
>	9.  The first thing you will see is a message to select a workspace. Before you continue, you must create a folder in your root path called !!VHSJava - for example: (C:\!!VHSJava).
>	10.  Make sure you have selected !!VHSJava as your workspace folder. Click OK.
>	11.  In your root path, create another folder called !!JavaDownload. The two names for these folders are important because they will show as the first directories in the alphabetical listing. Later in this course, you will download some files and Java projects which will be imported to our workspace.

## Copyright Information

> Copyright © VHS Inc. All rights reserved.