# Testing If Statements

- As programmers, we have to pay close attention to logical errors. Most of these are found in our looping structures.
- The AP Exam includes conditional statements in most of its multiple choice questions. You will need to follow the code segments efficiently to choose the correct option.
- What are the most effective ways to test your program and its component loops?
- There are a number of ways to test "if" statements. Are they all necessary? Are they complementary?
- Imagine you had to proof-read a classmate's code. After compiling and running, you noticed that the output is not correct. What process would you choose to find this error, and why?
  - If your process is stated in a list format, it will be easier for people to observe and reply to your post.

## My Response

Testing if statements would have to depend on the use case. If there's clear data validation involved like (x > 5) these tests are unnecessary. But you should still do some quality assurance.

If something went wrong and the code isn't well documented, I would first look for errors in the IDE (squiggly lines).Then, i would insert a bunch of print statements to keep track on which part program works as expected and where it quits.

If that doesn't work, I'll break down the code into smaller pieces and run them separately.

## A's Reply

I agree that it is a good idea to print your variables at different points in your code to figure out if they are equivalent to what they are supposed to be.  It is also a good idea to look at the IDE like you said, because it is the job of the IDE to look at your code and make sure it works.  Therefore, it should be able to tell you generally where you went wrong in your code.
