# Revise It

In this Revise It activity, you will have a chance to revise and resubmit answers to the questions from last week's AP Practice Quiz. You will discuss these questions with your classmates and find new ways to understand the format of the AP Exam.

## 11.6 AP Practice
I answered all of the questions correctly. This week's news post stated that "If you have time, go back to your quiz submission on week 9 and 10 and make corrections. There is a good prize if you do." so I decided look at quizzes from my previous weeks and make corrections.

## 10.6 AP Practice 

#### Question 2:

Consider the following code segment.

```
String abc = "ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ";

<missing statement>

System.out.println(abc.substring(k, k+1));
```

It is supposed to print a randomly chosen letter of the alphabet. Any of the 26 letters can be chosen with equal probability.

Which of the following can replace <missing statement> for the code to work that way?

I chose ```Math.random(0,25);``` but the answer should have been ```Math.random(25)``` because substring starts there are 26 letters and substring starts at 0.

#### Question 4:

The code fragment

```java
int x = < an integer value >

System.out.println(x*x);
```

displays -131071.

Which of the following is a possible value of x?

I chose "No such value exists" because I thought that -131071 was the maximum value of a bit operating system and it sounded like a prime number. But after running the code, 2^16 - 1 (or 65535) was the correct answer because it appears to be a limit in 16-bit Java Virtual Machine. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/65535_(number)

## 9.6 AP Practice 

#### Question 4:

Consider the following method.

```java
public static int mystery(int n)
{
    int x = 1;
    int y = 1;
    
    // Point A
    while (n > 2)
     {
      x = x + y;
      // Point B
      y = x - y;
      n--;
      }
      
   // Point C
   return x;
}
```

What value is returned as a result of the call mystery(6)?

I chose 6, but the correct answer should have been 5. I probably did my math wrong.

Running 6 through the method, it's greater than 2 so it goes through the while loop.

x(2) is set to the prior sum of x(1) + y(1). Then, y(1) is set to the prior difference between x(2) - y(1). From there, n is decreased by one to 5 and the loop is run again.

x(3) is set to the prior sum of x(2) + y(1). Then, y(2) is set to the prior difference between x(3) - y(1). From there, n is decreased by one to 4 and the loop is run again.

x(5) is set to the prior sum of x(3) + y(2). Then, y(3) is set to the prior difference between x(5) - y(2). From there, n is decreased by one to 3 and the loop is run again.

x(8) is set to the prior sum of x(5) + y(3). Then, y(5) is set to the prior difference between x(8) - y(3). From there, n is decreased by one to 2.

x should returns 5.