## Fundamentals of Java, page 255: Exercise 7.6

1. Describe appropriate test data for the following code segments:

  a. ```while (number > 0)```
  
  **-5363, -1, 0, 1, 3.14, 9999**

  b. ```while (0 < number && 100 > number)```
  
  **-5363, -1, 0, 3.14, 56, 71, 98, 100, 999**

2. Design test data for Project 4-6 (in Chapter 4).

  > A local biologist needs a program to predict population growth. The inputs would be the initial number of organisms, the rate of growth (a real number greater than 0), the number of hours it takes to achieve this rate, and a number of hours during which the population grows. For example, one might start with a population of 500 organisms, a growth rate of 2, and a growth period to achieve this rate of 6 hours. Assuming that none of the organisms die, this would imply that this population would double in size every 6 hours. Thus, after allowing 6 hours for growth, we would have 1000 organisms, and after 12 hours, we would have 2000 organisms. Write a program that takes these inputs and displays a prediction of the total population
  
  Initial number of organisms: **-1, 0, 1, 50, 1000, 100000**
  
  Rate of growth: **-1, 0, 1, 2, 50, 100, 1000**
  
  Number of hours: **-1, 0, 1, 2, 6, 100, 1000**

3. What would be reasonable test data for a loop that does not execute a fixed number of times?

  It would be data that is outside the range that the loop can handle, data that runs the loop once, and data that runs the loop multiple times. 

4. What is a robust program? Give an example.

  They are programs that are written in a way to respond gracefully to bad data. An example is when a letter or a negative number is entered in age field and a user is notified that it's not a valid age.
