## Fundamentals of Java, pages 179-181 Review Questions

### True/False

1. The first generation of programming languages is called assembly
    language. F
1. Java is an example of a high-level language. T
1. Mistakes found early in the coding process are much more expensive to fix
    than mistakes found later in the process. F
1. Byte code is a program that behaves like a computer. F
1. An arithmetic expression consists of operands and binary operators combined, as in algebra. T
1. Programs manipulate objects by sending them methods. T
1. An integer is a positive or negative whole number. T
1. Strings are objects, not primitive data types. T
1. A relational operator is used to compare data items. T
1. Most, but not all, information in a computer is represented in binary form. F

### Fill in the Blanks

1. OOP stands for *Object-oriented programming*.
1. The software responsible for translating a program in a high-level language to machine code is called a(n) *compiler*.
1. JVM stands for *Java Virtual Machine*.
1. When an object receives a message, the object responds by running a block of code called a(n) *method*.
1. Numbers with a fractional part are called *floating point*.
1. When evaluating an expression, Java performs operations of higher *precedence* first.
1. Use the *concatenation* operator to create a new string out of existing strings.
1. The ```while``` statement implements a(n) *conditional*.
1. A(n) *off by one* error occurs when a loop goes around one too many or one too few times.
1. A(n) *infinite loop* error occurs when a loop never stops.

### Free Response

1. What is the purpose of a variable in a program? To temporarily store information that can be reused in a program.

1. What are the three types of programming errors? Syntax, where a semicolon is missing while you write code. Run time, while the code is run and a file inputted is too large. Logic, is caused by unexpected results like a typo on input, and.

1. Describe the differences between the data types: double and int. Double is floating point (decimals) while int does not have a floating point.

1. Assume that the variables x and y contain the values 8 and 4, respectively. What are the values of the expressions listed below?

  1. ```x + y * 2```: - 16
  1. ```(x + y) / 3```: 4
  1. ```x - y * 3```: -4
  1. ```x + y * 1.5```: 14.0 (float)

1. Write a valid Java statement that adds 5 to the value of variable x if the value of variable y is greater than 10.

```java
while (y > 10) {
  x = x + 5;
}
```

1. A program has the following loop heading: ```while (3 < x < 10)```. Is the heading syntactically correct? If incorrect, explain why. Nope, this can not be interepreted by a computer. It can be fixed by using ```while (3 < x && x < 10)```

1. Write a loop that outputs the first 10 positive powers of 2.

```java
int Power;
Power = 2;
while (x < (2^10)) {
  int Powers = Power * 2;
  System.out.println (Powers);
}
```