## Instructions

Read all of the instructions in the Student Guide before completing the exercises below. When you're ready, click the **Edit** button to begin!

## Exploration

Have several conversations with your chatbot and answer the following questions:

1. What is the URL of your selected chatbot?

  [http://www.pandorabots.com/pandora/talk?botid=e69b9c750e345dfe](http://www.pandorabots.com/pandora/talk?botid=e69b9c750e345dfe)

  (This is my bot I created for a science project a few years ago!)

2. How does it respond to "where do you come from?"

  > I am originally from Haymarket, Virginia. Now I live in Amazon's cloud. Where are you?
  
3. What is the most interesting response?

  I am bored.

  > [heeeeeeeey.com](heeeeeeeey.com)

4. What is the most peculiar response?

  Do you eat steak?

  > No I do not eat steak. I eat only electricity. 

5. How does it respond to "asdfghjkl;"?**

  > That is a very original thought. Ask me something.

## Questions

Simple chatbots act by looking for key words or phrases and responding to them.

  1. Can you identify keywords to which your chatbot responds?

    My bot differentaites between types of words (proper nouns, common nouns, pronouns, objects, verbs, adjectives, etc.) and responds accordingly. Things like question words are key words.

  2. Think of several keywords and the responses they might cause.

    I am **asian**.

    > "What is it like growing up there? Tell me a little about your life in Asia."

    I play with **firecrackers.**

    > "Is it a **game** or a **musical instrument**?"

    It's a **dangerous** **explosive**.

    > "That sounds **dangerous**. Be careful!"
