# Activity 7

1. What items would be necessary if you were playing a game of Elevens at your desk (not on the computer)? List the private instance variables needed for the ElevensBoard class.
  
  - a deck
    - list of cards in the field
    - list of cards in can be moved/played
    - list of cards left in the game

2. Write an algorithm that describes the actions necessary to play the Elevens game.

3. Now examine the partially implemented ElevensBoard.java file found in theActivity7Starter Code directory. Does the ElevensBoardclass contain all the state and behavior necessary to play the game?

  I believe that it does indeed contain every state and behavior needed to play the game.

4. ElevensBoard.java contains three helper methods. These helper methods are private because they are only called from the ElevensBoard class.
  
  1. Where is the dealMyCards method called in ElevensBoard?
  
    It is called under newGame and the constructor.
  
  1. Which public methods should call the containsPairSum11 and containsJQK methods?
  
    isLegal should call the containsPairSum11 and containsJQK methods to validate the move.
  
  1. It’s important to understand how the cardIndexes method works, and how the list that it returns is used. Suppose that cards contains the elements shown below. Trace the execution of the cardIndexes method to determine what list will be returned. Complete the diagram below by filling in the elements of the returned list, and by showing how those values index cards. Note that the returned list may have less than 9 elements.
    
    |♥6|♣null|2♠|null|null|A♠|4♥|null|

    | 0 | 1 | 3 | 6 | 7 |
    |---|---|---|---|---|
  
  1.  Complete the following printCards method to print all of the elements of cards that are indexed by cIndexes.
  
    ```java
    public static printCards(ElevensBoard board) {
    List<Integer> cIndexes = board.cardIndexes()
    ```
    
    ```java
    /* Your code goes here. */
    for ( List card : cIndexes ) {
      print( cardAt( card ).toString() );
    }
    ```
  
    ```java
    }
    ```
  
  1. Which one of the methods that you identified in question 4b above needs to call the cardIndexes method before calling thecontainsPairSum11 and containsJQKmethods? Why?
  
    isLegal needs cards as parameters to validate the move.

# Activity 8

1. Discuss the similarities and differences between Elevens, Thirteens, and Tens. 

  Similarities: Standard card deck.
  
  Differences: Different rules, size of card board, point values, odds of winning, and playing behaviors/algorithms/methods.

2. As discussed previously, all of the instance variables are declared in the Board class. But it is the ElevensBoard class that “knows” the board size, and the ranks, suits, and point values of the cards in the deck. How do the Board instance variables get initialized with the ElevensBoard values? What is the exact mechanism?

  The superclass Board defines the deck and gets called by the ElevensBoard object to be initialized via polymorphism. 

3. Now examine the files Board.java, and ElevensBoard.java, found in the Activity8 Starter Code directory. Identify the abstract methods in Board.java. See how these methods are implemented in ElevensBoard. Do they cover all the differences between Elevens, Thirteens, and Tens as discussed in question 1? Why or why not?

  Abstract: Board, isLegal, anotherPlayIsPossible.

  Differences seem to be covered, Board has parameters (size, ranks, suits, pointValues) and isLegal/anotherPlayIsPossible is generic enough to be implemented differently in each invidual game. To the best of my understanding, it sufficently covers the differences between Elevens, Thirteens, and Tens.