# Term 2 Status Update

Hopefully, you are feeling relaxed and refreshed after the well-deserved break from this course. Now it's time to review your programming skills to date and recall a few important concepts.

In this discussion activity, we will play a game. Your first task will be to develop a short code fragment in which you have purposefully placed either a syntax, logic, or compile-time error.

Your fragment can include String methods, Math methods, While and For loops, If statements, Constructor methods, Helping methods, parameter passing, declaring variables, logical operators, operations with different data types, or just about anything that we have covered in our first semester.

Your classmates will work to discover your error and fix your code. Below is an example:

INITIAL POST: Code highlighted indicates errors.

```java
public class sensor {

	  public static void main(String[] args) {

	  for ( int x = 0 ; x < 100; x++); // Syntax error.

				   {

					  Random gen = new Random();

					  int a = gen.nextDouble(); // Type mismatch.

					}

	  System.out.println(a);
}
```

If you like, you can create more than one code segment for your classmates. Make sure to enter each one in a separate post.

In the course Discussions Area, find the 16.2 Coder Chat Discussion, and create a new post by Friday. In your post, create a thoughtful response to the following prompts:

1. Post a code fragment that features concepts from Semester 1.

1. Be sure that your code produces a syntax, logic, or compile-time error.

## My Response

```java

\\ A hello world progream proven to be robust on paper

private class HelloWorld {

	import java.util.Scanner;
	import java.oi.*;

	Scanner System.in = new Scanner:[input];

	public sticky void main(String[true] args) {

		System.out.println('I like my mom's teeth!');
		
		THE END.

}
```